In this video, we want to go in and
implement the Spring Data JPA Service
for visit. In the previous video, we
implemented the map based service. Now
we're going to come in and implement in
the Spring Data JPA version of that.
So let's come on over to IntelliJ.
Here's the VisitService where we
implemented the map version and remember
what we're doing here is we're going to
be setting up a map based implementation
in the Spring Data JPA implementation and
very soon I think we're going to be at the
point where can start running this based
on active profiles. Now, we need to get
this implemented, so I'm going to go ahead
and implement that now. In here, we
have these different implementations. I'm
just going to bring up the vets
implementation. You can see this
pretty self-explanatory. I'm going to
split this up just so we have it as a
reference. Sometimes when I'm doing
things that are very similar, it's
helpful for me to look back at it. I
think it's helpful for you just to see what
we're going to be implementing here on the
screen. We can see that we need a
repository. We do have to VisitRepository implemented already so that
is good. We don't need to implement
that. What we can do is come in here.
Say new Java class and we're going to say
VisitSDJpaService. I'm just
following the same naming
convention here that we used before, so
visit SD for Spring Data. Let me
spell JPA correctly. We'll go ahead
and say okay and drag this up to the top
window just for consistency.
We come in here and say implements
Visit
Service
and I come up here and say @Service.
See this Profile springdatajpa, we
want to go ahead and make sure that we
are implementing the same profile
because we only want this active with
the Spring Data JPA profile.
Implement methods, like so, and now, we can
see that we're going to take in that
repository. So I come up here private
final VisitRepository. Doing command N
constructor. Add in a default constructor
for that. Now what we can do is come in
and start implementing that so I bring
back a Set.
We're implementing that. We're doing a
for each and what we're going to do is
visits. Let's just do an add.
Now what we can do is return back
visits, like so.
Here, we are going to do visit
Repository findById(). Pass in that aLong.
In the or
Else function, that's going to say return
that or return back a null, so
that's the particular behavior. Not
very friendly for Java Optional. I
admit that, but it's the functionality
that we happen to want. Here I'm just
keeping that simple for this particular
implementation. So now, there save.  That is
going to become very easy save object.
That one is an easy one to implement,
almost as easy as delete.
deleteById() and we'll give that aLong
and that implements everything there.
That really completes the assignment. Now
one thing we had not done, I don't think
I have a task for it but I want to go in
and add some data on startup
so let's come in and I actually put that
into the pet clinic web. I'm going to
make sure that we can actually save into
our bootstrap process in the data loader.
So now, what we're going to do is come up
here and we'll do a private final
VisitService and notice some
referencing them by the interface.
This is going to allow Spring to go ahead
and inject it based on the active
profile and checked in one of the
implementations - based on the active
profile. So now, I have a new Owner OwnerService.
Let's come in here.
So we have owner
Fiona's cat. Let's make a visit for Fiona's
cat here.
We can say Visit.
We're going to make it for Fiona's
cat, like so.
We'll just make it for right now
that is perfectly fine for our purposes.
Now let's take a quick look at this
visit, so we have a LocalDate,
description. Let's go ahead and give
it a description as well.
We'll say that it's a sneezy kitty.
Then finally, what we need to do is
grab a hold of our visitService and say
save catVisit like so.
Now, I'm going to go ahead and start this up.
Make sure that it runs. We're still
running against some map implementation,
so we'll start that. Make sure we're not
tossing any exceptions. Very very
rudimentary set of testing. We are making
sure that everything compiles okay and
that we don't throw any unexpected
runtime exceptions. We see here
that VisitService
could not be found, so that tells me I am
guessing. I forgot to annotate the map
implementation,
and exactly that, I did not annotate that.
So basically, Spring is going out. I
excluded this one. I did implement that
but I put on a profile Spring Data JPA.
That's not available. This one's not
implemented and you can see here that is
there, so I am just going to come up and say
@Service like so and now if I come in
and restart those.
Now since this is in the Spring
context now, it's marked as a Spring Bean.
That Spring detects on the service.
You can see that everything loaded up
properly. I just saw that I have a
typo there so let's go ahead and fix
that while I'm here as well. You come and
refactor rename.
I'm missing an 'i' so VisitMapService. Now refactor that, and see here we
were on issue number 47.
Let's go ahead and commit that.
That was number 47.
Number 47. We'll go ahead and commit
and push that up to Git and that action
will close out the task for us.